[Skip banner]
[Home][Sources][How Do I?][Overview][Help]

[Return To Search Form][FOCUS][printdoc][emaildoc]
Search Terms: haiku, Cho

[Document List][Expanded List][KWIC][FULL format currently displayed]

           [Previous Document] Document 12 of 18. [Next Document]

                Copyright 1996 The Denver Post Corporation
                              The Denver Post

                      July 29, 1996 Monday 2D EDITION

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-07

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: From Spamku to Lammku

BYLINE: Bob Ewegen

BODY:
The Spamku, as aesthetes of both poetry and lunchmeat know, is a variation
of the traditional delicate Japanese haiku, a 17-syllable poem that follows
the form of three lines divided into five, seven and five syllables. Unlike
the traditional haiku, however, Spamku celebrate - or, sadly, sometimes
denigrate - Spam.

There is, in fact, a Spam haiku archive on the Internet, established by John
Nagamachi Cho, a scientist at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. Its
address is http://www.naic.edu/jcho/spam/sha.html but I reached it by typing
"Spam" and "Haiku" into my America Online Webcrawler.

Within seconds, I was into the Spamku archives, which now host 4,300 odd
Spamku - some of them very odd. Hormel buys Seuss' rights. Revised
children's book hits stores: "Eat Green Eggs and SPAM." Bill Clinton on
SPAM: "Congress must cut excess pork So I'll eat that slice!"

Some Spamku celebrate the dark side of the spiced ham force: Millions starve
in Chad. U.S. sends massive SPAM aid. Millions starve in Chad. But SPAM fans
strike back with a multiculutral salute: "SPAM" in French is "Spamme." Like
Spamme frites and Spamme l'orangeThe French are so cool.

Of course, you have heard those lurid tales about sex on the Internet.
Spamku are not exempt from the throes of cyberpassion: I kissed you at
lunch, Your lips still shiny from the Hot, freshly fried slice.

Or consider this very tender Spamku: I sent her ninety SPAM haiku to show my
love. She sent me a shrink.

As important as lunchmeat haiku are, no true artist can rest solely on the
shoulders of the giants of the Spamku form. We must always strive for still
greater heights.

So I asked myself, "Self," I asked, "What can we do as Coloradans to carry
this art to the next level?"

And the answer came as in a dream: "The Lammku."

We can write three-line, 17-syllable poems about Dick Lamm. Perot had a Lamm
and barked at him the order: Dick, do your duty. Lamm as president. Does
that make Kervorkian surgeon general? Play "Stand up, dammit" the Marine
band is now told. Not "Hail to the Chief." Lamm prez race is toast. Bid for
youth vote forgot that Old folk vote the most.

Celebrate this new art form: Write your own three-line Lammku. It must have
five syllables in the first line, seven in the second, five in the third and
be about Dick Lamm.

Send them to Lammku contest, in care of Bob Ewegen, The Denver Post, Box
1709, Denver, 80201, or by e-mail toBOBEWEGEN@aol.com. I'll publish some of
the best in a future column. Bob Ewegen is The Post's deputy editorial page
editor.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996

           [Previous Document] Document 12 of 18. [Next Document]

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

[FOCUS]

Search Terms: haiku, Cho
To narrow your search, please enter a word or phrase:


[About LEXIS-NEXIS® Academic Universe] [Terms and Conditions] [Top of Page]
 Copyright © 2001, LEXIS-NEXIS®, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights
                                 Reserved.
