[Skip banner]
[Home][Sources][How Do I?][Overview][Help]

[Return To Search Form][FOCUS][printdoc][emaildoc]
Search Terms: haiku, Cho

[Document List][Expanded List][KWIC][FULL format currently displayed]

            [Previous Document] Document 3 of 18. [Next Document]

                       Copyright 1999 Star Tribune
                       Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                      January 16, 1999, Metro Edition

SECTION: Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: FYI;
Spam, Spam, Spam, wonderful Spam

BYLINE: Dave Matheny; Staff Writer

BODY:
We return again to the concept of Spamku, which are haiku found on the
Internet that are devoted to Spam. (Haiku, a Japanese poetic form, has three
lines of five, seven and five syllables each.) In the Japanese tradition,
the poems are delicate, as they would have to be when the subject is the
touch of a lotus petal on your cheek. It's tougher to stay delicate when
involving Hormel's famous spiced luncheon meat; even so, the number of poems
that people has grown to 12,000. And John Cho, the MIT scientist who
maintains the site, has published a book, "Spam-ku: Tranquil Reflections on
a Luncheon Loaf" (Harperperennial Library, $ 7.95). Here's a sample from the
Web site (http://pemtropics.mit.edu/jcho/spam):

There is no justice

And there is no repentance

There is only Spam

Ah, but there also is the Internet term spam, with a lower-case S, which
originated, according to the Free Online Dictionary of Computing
(http://nightflight.com/foldoc/), with a Monty Python sketch in which a
restaurant has Spam in most of its menu choices. (Dishes include egg and
Spam; bacon and Spam; egg, bacon, sausage and Spam, and lobster thermidor
aux crevettes with a mornay sauce garnished with truffle pate brandy and a
fried egg on top of Spam.)

- Dave Matheny

Just to help you feel

a little older

The world's first 1980s-themed nightclub has opened in New York, complete
with a mural of Adam Ant, a drink called the Cabbage Patch and giant Rubik's
cubes dangling from the ceiling.

- Los Angeles Times

Heads up

A garden in winter

We in Minnesota do not usually think of gardens at this time of year, but
the folks at the Minnesota Landscape Arboretum do. They're inviting people
to visit on Monday and contemplate the Japanese garden, which they say is
intended to be viewed in all seasons. Arboretum volunteers will take
visitors on guided walks through the Japanese garden to view its winter
splendor and discover unique features.

Visitors can watch a one-hour video on Japanese culture and garden
philosophy indoors before or after their tours.

- When: 10:30, 11 or 11:30 a.m. Monday.

- Where: Minnesota Landscape Arboretum, Hwy. 5, 9 miles west of Interstate
Hwy. 494 in Chanhassen.

- Admission: Free with paid gate admission: $ 5 for adults over 18, under 18
free.

- Call: 612-443-2460.

Comments

If you have comments about this section, call Features Editor Susie Eaton
Hopper at 612-673-4530, or e-mail variety@gw.startribune.com. For inquiries
or complaints, call Lou Gelfand at 612-673-4450 or e-mail
readerrep@gw.startribune.com.

GRAPHIC: Illustration; Illustration; Illustration; Illustration;
Illustration; Cartoon; Cartoon; Cartoon; Cartoon; Illustration;
Illustration; Illustration

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

            [Previous Document] Document 3 of 18. [Next Document]

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

[FOCUS]

Search Terms: haiku, Cho
To narrow your search, please enter a word or phrase:


[About LEXIS-NEXIS® Academic Universe] [Terms and Conditions] [Top of Page]
 Copyright © 2001, LEXIS-NEXIS®, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights
                                 Reserved.
