[Skip banner]
[Home][Sources][How Do I?][Overview][Help]

[Return To Search Form][FOCUS][printdoc][emaildoc]
Search Terms: haiku, Cho

[Document List][Expanded List][KWIC][FULL format currently displayed]

            [Previous Document] Document 9 of 18. [Next Document]

                       Copyright 1998 Star Tribune
                       Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                      November 4, 1998, Metro Edition

SECTION: Pg. 1T

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: FYI;
Lovely luncheon loaf

BODY:
Love to smile at SPAM,

and fond of Japanese verse?

You should read "SPAM-ku."

In a gift-book jam?

You certainly could do worse;

though some bits are blue.

Yes, SPAM-ku is a small book of haiku - or senryu (same 5-7-5 form, broader
subject range) - all about the pink luncheon loaf from Austin, Minn. The
editor selected the book's 162 examples from a SPAM-ku Web site he manages,
where there are thousands: http://pemtropics.mit.edu/ jcho/spam. Hormel
consented to the book's use of its trademark as long as the firm could
screen out any SPAM-ku it really hated, but quite a few rather adult verses
remain. Here are three G-rated favorites:

Ate three cans of SPAM,

But there's still room for Jell-O.

I love this country.

In the cabinet

it lurks, unseen, forgotten . . .

Then you move the soup.

Black cat drags about

his pink, purloined bite of SPAM

like an extra tongue.

"SPAM-ku: Tranquil Reflections on Luncheon Loaf," edited by John Nagamichi
Cho. HarperPerennial. $ 7.95. 88 pages.

This week

Suddenly it's 1962

A jumbo shrimp cocktail appetizer for $ 2.50 sound like a pretty good deal?
Today through Nov. 15, the Rosewood Room restaurant, on the seventh floor of
the Crowne Plaza Northstar Hotel, 618 2nd Av. S., Minneapolis, is
celebrating its 36th anniversary by posting 1962 prices on ten of its menu
items. Other examples: Roast rack of lamb, $ 8; cup of wild rice soup, 75
cents.

In addition, the restaurant is sponsoring a "Remember When Contest," asking
folks to submit a story (150 words or less) about a special experience they
had at the Rosewood Room. Grand prize winner gets a weekend trip for two to
New York City. Accompanying photos will get extra credit and can be
returned. Drop entries at the Rosewood Room or mail them to "Remember When
Contest," Rosewood Room, Crowne Plaza Northstar Hotel, 618 2nd Av. S.,
Minneapolis, MN 55402.

Move fast for Slow Food

This one sneaked up on us, so unless you're really impetuous it's too late
to head for the Slow Food Movement's Salone Del Gusto food exhibition in
Turin, Italy Thursday through Monday. Billed as "the largest gourmets'
emporium of the century," the event includes 154 taste workshops; 50 meal
sessions with celebrated chefs; 300 food purveyors; 2,000 wines for tasting;
cooking classes; tastings, conferences and more. But you could start
thinking about the next Slow Food events, VinItaly next April in Venice, and
the world's largest cheese expo in Bra, Italy, next September.

The Slow Food Movement, founded in 1986, promotes local cooking styles and
small food producers and, a spokesman said, seeks to combat "the bad effects
of eating and running, microwaves and drive-throughs . . . by bringing
conviviality back to the table." Check out http://www.slowfood.com.

Comments

To reach the Taste staff, call 612-673-4483, fax 612-673-7568, write to
Taste, Star Tribune, 425 Portland Av. S., Minneapolis, MN 55488, or e-mail
taste@gw.startribune.com.

- Lee Svitak Dean, food editor

- Al Sicherman, reporter

- Diane Osby, news assistant

GRAPHIC: Photograph; Photograph; Photograph; Cartoon; Cartoon

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

            [Previous Document] Document 9 of 18. [Next Document]

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

[FOCUS]

Search Terms: haiku, Cho
To narrow your search, please enter a word or phrase:


[About LEXIS-NEXIS® Academic Universe] [Terms and Conditions] [Top of Page]
 Copyright © 2001, LEXIS-NEXIS®, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights
                                 Reserved.
