Bremer, J., W. Singer, D. Keuer, P.  Hoffmann, J. Rottger,
J. Y. N. Cho, and W. E. Swartz, PMSE observations with EISCAT during
summer 1991, Radio Sci., 30, 1219-1228, 1995.

Polar mesosphere summer echoes (PMSE) have been observed with the
European incoherent scatter radar (EISCAT) operating at 224 MHz during
summer 1991.  The mean height of PMSE was about 85 km during day-time
and about 87 km during night-time with a markedly enhanced occurrence
probability during day-time.  The probability of occurrence of PMSE is
higher during geomagnetically quiet than during disturbed periods.
There are some indications of a PMSE modulation by atmospheric gravity
waves a s well as 2d-waves.  Comparisons of PMSE structures derived
from EISCAT 224-MHz and CUPRI 46.9-MHz radar observations demonstrate
common features as well as marked differences.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., Inertio-gravity wave parameter estimation from
cross-spectral analysis, J. Geophys. Res., 100, 18727-18737, 1995

We outline a method for extracting inertio-gravity wave parameters
using the auto- and cross-spectra of the horizontal perturbation
winds.  In essence, we define a statistical hodograph for each
spectral bin, thus combining the advantages of the rotary spectrum and
hodograph methods.  Furthermore, we include the effects of the
background vertical shear in the parameter estimation equations, a
step that had often been omitted in the past.  Applying this technique
to a long-period data set taken with the Arecibo 430-MHz radar, we
explore its usefulness as well as its limitations.  The results
support the interpretation of horizontal wind-perturbation rotation in
the lower stratosphere over Arecibo as inertio-gravity waves rather
than mountain waves imbedded within a background vertical shear.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., and M. C. Kelley, Polar mesospheric summer radar
echoes: Observations and current theories, Rev. Geophys., 31, 243-265,
1993.

The remarkably strong radar echoes from the summer polar mesosphere
have been an enigma to atmospheric and radar scientists since their
discovery more than a decade ago.  Since then, more sophisticated
radar experiments and in situ rocket measurements have shed some light
on the underlying physics and chemistry, and theories have been
formulated to explain the generation of the intense radar backscatter
and the remarkable physical conditions associated with it.  First, we
review the key observations and examine the proposed theories.  We
then evaluate the progress that has been made in understanding this
phenomenon and explore its connection to global change, to the newly
recognized material referred to as a dusty plasma, and to the highest
clouds in the Earth's atmosphere.  Finally, we end with suggestions
for future research.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., M. P. Sulzer, and M. C. Kelley, Meteoric dust effects
on D-region incoherent scatter radar spectra,
J. Atmos. Solar-Terr. Phys., in press, 1998.

We extend the incoherent backscatter radar equation for the weakly
ionized, collision-dominated case to include polydisperse charged
dust, using the fluid-equation approach.  Calculations with this
equation show that the main effect of charged dust on the radar
Doppler spectrum is to narrow it, except in the case of very small,
negatively charged dust, which widens the spectrum.  The results are
encouraging for the use of incoherent scatter radar as an instrument
for meteoric dust measurement.  We also note that if the effects of
meteoric dust are not taken into account, one may get a systematic
bias in the D-region parameters deduced from the the radar spectra.
This may account for the discrepancy between observed and calculated
spectra reported in earlier papers.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., and R. L. Morley, PMSE dependence on long-period
vertical motions, Geophys. Res.  Lett., 22, 1197-1200, 1995.

We analyze the temporal relationship between PMSE (polar mesosphere
summer echoes) and long-period vertical motions using the Poker Flat,
Alaska radar data.  The results show that the vertical velocity leads
PMSE by 90 to 180 deg with an upward trend in phase with increasing
frequency.  We show that this is consistent with the current PMSE
theories which depend primarily upon the presence of charged ice
aerosols for the enhancement of radar scatter.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., and J. Rottger, An updated review of polar mesosphere
summer echoes: Observation, theory, and their relationship to
noctilucent clouds and subvisible aerosols, J. Geophys. Res., 102,
2001-2020, 1996.

Peculiar atmospheric radar echoes from the high-latitude summer
mesosphere have spurred much research in recent years.  The radar data
(taken on frequency bands ranging from 2 to 1290 MHz) have been
supplemented by measurements from an increasing arsenal of in situ
(rocket-borne) and remote-sensing (satellites and lidars) instruments.
Theories to explain these so-called polar mesosphere summer echoes
(PMSE) have also proliferated.  Although each theory is distinct and
fundamentally different, they all share the feature of being dependent
on the existence of electrically charged aerosols.  It is, therefore,
natural to assume that PMSE are intimately linked to the other
fascinating phenomenon of the cold summer mesopause, noctilucent
clouds (NLCs), which are simply ice aerosols that are large enough to
be seen by the naked eye.  In this paper we critically examine both
the data collected and the theories proposed, with a special focus on
the relationship between PMSE and NLCs.  The picture that emerges is
loosely akin to that of an iceberg, where the visible tip is the small
number of big particles that manifest themselves as NLCs and where the
submerged mass is the large number of smaller, subvisible particles
that create the right condition for PMSE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., T. M. Hall, and M. C. Kelley, On the role of charged
aerosols in polar mesosphere summer echoes, J. Geophys. Res., 97,
875-886, 1992.

Submicron aerosols, as evidenced by the occurrence of polar
mesospheric and noctilucent clouds, exist at heights from which polar
mesosphere summer echoes (PMSE) are observed.  We investigate the role
of positively and negatively charged aerosols in the scattering
processes proposed in the literature.  These aerosols, if charged
substantially, can account for the remarkably high radar reflectivity
at both VHF and UHF by raising the electron Schmidt number through the
ambipolar effect.  A positively charged component may be responsible
for enhanced UHF radar scatter by increasing the incoherent scatter
power through a dressed dust effect, although such a process is not
realistic as an explanation for VHF scatter during PMSE.  Such an
enhanced UHF scatter will be associated with extremely narrow
backscatter spectra.  We propose a model in which both negatively and
positively charged aerosols are present to explain both the radar
properties and the rocket probe observations of charged particle
depletions.  Finally, we point out that the Poker Flat 50-MHz long-term
data, which contrary to accepted dynamical theory show average
downward velocities in the summertime upper mesosphere, can be
attributed to the fall speed of the aerosols responsible for PMSE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., M. C. Kelley, and C. J. Heinselman, Enhancement of
Thomson scatter by charged aerosols in the polar mesosphere:
Measurements with a 1.29-GHz radar, Geophys. Res. Lett., 19,
1097-1100, 1992.

The summer polar mesosphere was observed with the Sondrestrom 1.29-GHz
radar with a new high-resolution data acquisition mode.  On one
occasion, a spatially narrow enhancement in the backscattered power
was seen near an altitude of 88 km.  We discuss possible explanations
and propose that this layer may be the first example of polar
mesosphere summer echoes (PMSE) detected above 1 GHz.  Specifically,
we suggest that these echoes are enhanced Thomson scatter from a layer
of charged aerosols, and we speculate upon the size and charge state.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., W. E. Swartz, M. C. Kelley, and C. A. Miller, CUPRI
observations of PMSE during Salvo B of NLC-91: Evidence of both
partial reflection and turbulent scatter, Geophys. Res. Lett., 20,
2291-2294, 1993.

During the first rocket sequence (called Salvo B) of the NLC-91
campaign, the Cornell University portable radar interferometer (CUPRI)
observed two simultaneously occurring layers of polar mesosphere
summer echoes (PMSE).  During the time of the Turbo B flight, the high
time-resolution CUPRI Doppler spectra exhibited sawtooth-like
discontinuities in the lower layer which we interpret to be a
distorted partial reflection layer which was advected across the radar
beam.  The upper layer, on the other hand, appeared to be caused by
turbulent scatter and we estimate the turbulence energy dissipation
rate in the upper layer at the time of the Turbo B flight to have been
approximately 0.04 W/kg.  Furthermore, a shift in the antenna beam
direction from vertical to 8 deg off zenith revealed an aspect
sensitivity of approximately 5 dB in the lower layer but none in the
upper layer.  We conclude that, at this particular time, turbulent
scatter was responsible for the upper layer while some form of partial
reflection was dominant in the lower layer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., C. M. Alcala, M. C. Kelley, and W. E. Swartz, Further
effects of charged aerosols on summer mesospheric radar scatter,
J. Atmos. Terr. Phys., 58, 661-672, 1996.

In an earlier paper we showed that charged aerosols play a crucial
role in enhancing radar echoes from the summer polar mesosphere
through reduced diffusion turbulent scatter and dressed aerosol
scatter [Cho et al., 1992].  Here we explore the effects of charged
aerosols on radar scatter through fossil turbulence and electron
density depletion layers.  We find that the former can produce radar
scatter even after the decay of neutral gas turbulence.  The latter,
which are likely produced by the scavenging of free electrons by ice
particles, are a candidate for causing partial reflection or Fresnel
scatter.  Furthermore, we examine the mutual aerosol interaction
restriction on dressed aerosol scatter more closely.  We find that a
high ambient electron density and low aerosol number density are
needed for effective dressed aerosol scatter to occur.  We then show
that very small (less than 1 nm radii), negatively charged aerosols
enhance electron diffusivity, and thus inhibit radar scatter.  Also
ice aerosol sedimentation, in light of the reduced diffusion theory,
leads us to conclude that the statistical peak in PMSE power should be
located between the mean mesopause and the average NLC height, which
agrees with observations.  Finally, we invoke time lags in the ice
particle formation cycle to account for the observed non-correlation
between PMSE and NLC occurrence.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Cho, J. Y. N., R. F. Jurgens, and M. A. Slade, High-resolution
stratospheric dynamics measurements with the NASA/JPL Goldstone Solar
System Radar, Geophys. Res. Lett., 23, 1909-1912, 1996

We have used, for the first time that we are aware of, the NASA/JPL
Goldstone planetary radar to study the Earth's atmosphere.  With its
high bandwidth and power, we were able to achieve a height resolution
of 20 m, which is significantly better than the usual 150-m resolution
for stratospheric radars.  Here we discuss the observation of a very
thin scattering layer that persisted over several hours at the same
height just above the tropopause.  We question the assumption of
turbulent radar scatter based on the available evidence, and also
investigate the two-minute oscillation observed in the vertical
velocity.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Hall, T. M., J. Y. N. Cho, M. C. Kelley, and W. K. Hocking, A
re-evaluation of the Stokes drift in the polar summer mesosphere,
J. Geophys. Res., 97, 887-897, 1992.

The Stokes drift argument put forth by Coy et al. [1986] to explain
the monthly mean downward vertical velocities observed in the summer
polar mesosphere by radars is critically re-examined.  The size of the
effect is quite sensitive to the choice of gravity wave wavenumber and
phase speed.  We reproduce the Coy et al. [1986] result for a
monochromatic gravity wave and then generalize to a Garrett-Munk type
spectrum.  This allows us to easily incorporate experimentally
determined wave field parameters in order to predict a Stokes drift
magnitude.  The Stokes drift we calculate for mesospheric spectra
reported in the literature is less than 4 cm/s.  This is nearly a
factor of 10 smaller than the mean June and July downward vertical
velocities we have verified from 4-year averaging of the Poker Flat,
Alaska, radar data base.  In this extended analysis we also find that
the upward winter mean vertical velocity is smaller than previously
reported but still in apparent conflict with the mesospheric winter
circulation theory.  We suggest, as an alternative to the Stokes drift
idea, that the observed summer velocity might be the terminal velocity
of charged aerosols.  Such an explanation would have the advantage of
relating mean velocity observations to the large VHF radar cross
section exhibited by the polar summer mesosphere.  This possible
connection is discussed further in a companion paper.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Hoppe, U.-P., T. A. Blix, E. V. Thrane, F.-J. Lubken, J. Y. N. Cho,
and W. E. Swartz, Studies of polar mesosphere summer echoes by VHF
radar and rocket probes, Adv. Space Res., 14 (9), 139-148, 1994.

At radar frequencies in the range 50 MHz to 250 MHz, at times even to
over 1 GHz, strong enhancements of scattering cross section occur
between ~ 80 km and ~ 95 km altitude in summer at high latitudes.
These echoes, termed "Polar Mesosphere Summer Echoes" (PMSE), have
attracted considerable experimental effort.  Observations of this
phenomenon are reviewed in the context of atmospheric dynamics and of
scattering processes.  Recent rocket and radar measurements indicate
that a partial reflection from a multitude of ion layers and
constructive interference causes at least some of the PMSE.  It is
discussed which further observations are necessary and some possible
practical consequences of PMSE are pointed out.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Inhester, B., J. C. Ulwick, J. Y. N. Cho, M. C. Kelley, and G.
Schmidt, Consistency of rocket and radar electron density
observations: Implication about the anisotropy of mesospheric
turbulence, J. Atmos. Terr. Phys., 52, 855-873, 1990.

We report about a quantitative comparison of rocket observations of
electron density fluctuations and simultaneous 53.5-MHz radar
measurements that were obtained during the MAC/SINE campaign in
northern Norway in summer 1987.  Out of three rockets launched during
the Turbulence/Gravity Wave salvo on 14 July 1987, two were flown
during conditions that allowed a detailed investigation.  For a large
part of the data from these rocket flights it is found that the radar
reflectivity is about 10 dB enhanced over what would be expected from
the rocket observations in the case of isotropic electron density
fluctuations.  The observations can be reconciled under the assumption
of an anisotropic turbulence.  Assuming a simple model spectrum for
electron density fluctuations, we derive a relation between the rocket
and radar observations that covers the whole range from isotropic
turbulent scatter to Fresnel scatter at horizontal density
stratifications.  For the observed data set, an anisotropy which
typically corresponds to a ratio of horizontal to the vertical
coherence length of about 10 is consistent with the comparison of
rocket and radar observations.  A similar anisotropy is found also
from the observed aspect sensitivity of the radar echoes.  The
variation of the anisotropy with height and time shows an
anticorreltaion with the turbulence level of the mesosphere deduced
from the spectral width of the radar echoes.  The anisotropy is found
to maximize in heights where the electron density displays deep
"bite-outs."  These depletions in the electon desnity were
independently observed by a Langmuir and an admittance probe on board
two of the rockets.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Kelley, M. C., C. M. Alcala, and J. Y. N. Cho, Detection of a meteor
contrail and meteoric dust in the Earth's upper mesosphere,
J. Atmos. Solar-Terr. Phys., in press, 1998.

In 1983 a series of small rockets were launched from the Poker Flat
Rocket Range near Fairbanks, Alaska to study what has come to be
called polar mesospheric summer echoes (PMSE).  Very intense VHF radar
returns from the region had been reported by Balsley and co-workers
using the Poker Flat Radar.  The purpose of the experiment was to
understand the scattering mechanisms and to this end simple nosetip
Langmuir probes were flown on Super Arcas rockets.  We report here on
a fortuitous simultaneous radar and rocket detection of what seems to
be a meteor trail produced over the Poker Flat Rocket Range.  The two
data sets are mutually consistent and taken together suggest some very
interesting properties for the trails of large meteors.  Most notable
is the evidence that the ablated material has coagulated into
particles the order of 50 nm in radius.  This estimate is based
primarily on the fall speed deduced from both the Doppler shift of the
VHF radar signal and the time rate of change of the target as it fell
through the beam.  In addition the very existence of the radar target,
the extremely sharp edges of the trail, and the existence of electron
density structures inside the trail more than an order of magnitude
smaller than the Kolmogorov microscale, all require large charged
aerosols and a very high Schmidt number.  Curiously the environment
leading to PMSE is very similar to the properties of a large meteor
trail some minutes after it is formed.  In the former case ice
particles grow and become charged by the plasma and, when more than
half the charge is tied up on the ice, the plasma diffusion
coefficient becomes so small that structure can be supported at VHF
scattering scales.  In the late-time meteor case large aerosols
coagulate and tie up both natural charge in the plasma and the
original meteor trail electrons.  Following the work of Rosinski and
Snow [1961] and Hunten et al. [1980] we conclude that the incident
meteor was the order of 50-100 g and would have had a visual magnitude
of about -4.  Such a meteor is not uncommon but it is remarkable
indeed to have had the opportunity to study its evolution with radar
and particularly with rocket instrumentation.  Two experimental
techniques are discussed which could be used to test the conclusions
of this report and, if verified, to further study large charged
mesospheric aerosols.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Kirkwood, S., J. Y. N. Cho, C. M. Hall, U.-P. Hoppe, D. P. Murtagh,
J. Stegman, W. E. Swartz, A. P. van Eyken, G. Wannberg, and G. Witt, A
comparison of PMSE and other ground-based observations during the
NLC-91 campaign, J. Atmos. Terr. Phys., 57, 35-44, 1995.

During the period July/August 1991 observations were made of polar
mesospheric summer echoes (PMSE) at 46.9 MHz and 224 MHz by the CUPRI
and EISCAT radars, respectively, at two sites in northern Scandinavia.
Those observations are here compared with observations of noctilucent
clouds, energetic particle precipition and magnetic disturbances.  The
appearance and morphology of PMSE is found to be closely correlated at
the two frequencies and the two sites, 200 km apart.  No correlation
is found between PMSE and noctilucent clouds or magnetic disturbance.
No correlation is found between energetic particle precipitation and
the appearnce of PMSE at 46.9 MHz for the whole time period.  At 224
MHz there is no evidence for a correlation before the beginning of
August and only one event suggesting a possible correlation after the
beginning of August.  A minimum in occurrence frequency for PMSE is
found between 16-21 UT (17-22 LST) which may be related to an expected
minimum in background wind strength in the time interval.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Mandal, T. K., J. Y. N. Cho, P. B. Rao, A. R. Jain, S. K. Peshin,
S. K. Srivastava, A. K. Bohra, and A. P. Mitra,
Stratosphere-troposphere ozone exchange observed with the Indian MST
radar and simultaneous balloon borne ozonesonde, Radio Sci., in press,
1998.

The ST mode operation of Indian MST Radar provided evidence of
multiple stable layer structures near the tropopause and also of its
"weakening" during late night hours on several occasions.  Mass
exchange can take place between troposphere and stratosphere during
the periods of such "weakening."  To examine whether there is any
transport of ozone from stratosphere to troposphere at the time of
tropopause "weakening" at tropical latitudes, simultaneous
observations were carried out using Indian MST Radar located at
Gadanki (13.50N, 79.20E) now fully operational in MST mode and
ozonesonde flights from Trivandrum (8.90N, 76.60E). Four campaigns of
simultaneous observations were conducted during January 3-8, November
9-16 and December 5-10, 1994, June 7-24, 1995.

The results show occurrence of the tropopause "weakening" several
times during January 3-8, November 9-16 and December 5-10,
1994. Simultaneous observations of ozone profiles particularly on
January 7/8, November 10, 16 and December 7/8, 1994, the days of
tropopause "weakening," show the evidence of decrease in stratospheric
ozone and corresponding increase in tropospheric ozone after this
event, the total ozone remaining essentially constant on those days
with respect to other days.  But tropopause "weakening" on January 4/5,
1994 does not show any considerable change in the ozone profiles.  The
results are presented here relating the degree of tropopause
"weakening" to the extent of vertical mass exchange between
troposphere and stratosphere.

An effort has been made to examine the role of horizontal advection of
ozone in increasing tropospheric ozone at the region of interest, the
geographical distribution of tropospheric ozone residual (TOR) has
been analyzed by the two data sets obtained independently from
Meteor-3 Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometers (Meteor-3 TOMS) and Upper
Air Research Satellite (UARS).  Simultaneously the possibility of
horizontal transport of ozone from the surroundings of Tirupati and
Trivandrum in increasing tropospheric ozone due to synoptic scale
circulation has also been verified by close inspection of synoptic
weather charts at 1000, 700, 500 and 300 hPa obtained from NCMRWF GCM
model at 00 UTC and 12 UTC of January 7 and 00 UTC and 12 UTC of
January 8, 1994.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Lubken, F.-J., G. Lehmacher, T. A. Blix, U.-P. Hoppe, E. V. Thrane,
J. Y. N. Cho, and W. E. Swartz, First in situ observations of neutral
and plasma density fluctuations within a PMSE layer,
Geophys. Res. Lett., 20, 2311-2314, 1993.

The NLC-91 rocket and radar campaign provided the first opportunity
for high resolution neutral and plasma turbulence measurements with
simultaneous observations of PMSE (polar mesospheric summer echoes).
During the flight of the TURBO payload on August 1, 1991, CUPRI and
EISCAT observed double PMSE layers located at 86 and 88 km altitude,
repectively.  Strong neutral density fluctuations were observed in the
upper layer but not in the lower layer.  The fluctuation spectra of
the ions and neutrals within the uper layer are consistent with
standard turbulence theories.  However, we show that there is no
neutral turbulence present in the lower layer and that something else
must have been operating here to create the plasma fluctuations and
hence the radar echoes.  Although the in situ measurements of the
electron density fluctuations are much stronger in the lower layer,
the higher absolute electron density of the upper layer more than
compensated for weaker fluctuations yielding comparable radar echo
powers.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Miller, C. A., W. E. Swartz, and J. Y. N. Cho, CUPRI observations of
PMSE during Salvo C of NLC-91: Evidence of a depressed mesopause
temperature, Geophys. Res.  Lett., 20, 2295-2298, 1993.

The Cornell University portable radar interferometer (CUPRI) observed
two extremely strong layers of polar summer mesosphere echoes (PMSE)
thirty minutes prior to the launch of Salvo C of the NLC-91 campaign.
The lower layer exhibited a S/N ratio of 42 dB (the second strongest
event of NLC-91), vertical velocities of a few m/s, and a narrow
spectral width, suggesting that it was the result of partial
reflections. The upper layer, in contrast, exhibited sinusoidal
structures in vertical velocity with peak amplitudes greater than +-10
m/s and wide spectral widths. These structures were observed to grow
and steepen with altitude until they broke and produced turbulent
radar scattering.  We conclude that the rapid rate of growth of the
wave with altitude was the result of a depressed mesopause temperature
and a nearly adiabatic temperature gradient at PMSE heights and that
the simultaneous measurement of both a low mesopause temperature and
strong PMSE supports recent theories that find the presence of charged
aerosols to be the key to the unique radar cross sections associated
with PMSE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Palmer, R. D., M. F. Larsen, P. B. Howell, J. Y. N. Cho,
R. M. Narayan, and M. C. Kelley, A new spatial interferometry
capability using the Arecibo 430 MHz radar, Radio Sci., 32, 749-755,
1997.

This note describes the new spatial interferometry (SI) capability of
the 430 MHz radar system of the Arecibo Observatory (AO).  Three
limitations exist when the 430 MHz radar is used for observations in
the tropo- and stratospheric region.  First, the AO radar currently
has a lower height limitation of approximately 6 km, due to the
existing transmit/receive switch.  Second, fading ground clutter
limits the useful data which can be obtained and complicates the
analysis.  Third, the large mass of the feed system, which slows down
beam steering, reduces the temporal resolution of any measurements
requiring multiple beam positions.  For these reasons, an SI system
has been developed which will be shown to reduce these limitations.  A
brief description of the hardware is provided and preliminary data are
presented.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Swartz, W. E., J. Y. N. Cho, and C. A. Miller, CUPRI system
configuration for NLC-91 and observations of PMSE during Salvo A,
Geophys. Res. Lett., 20, 2287-2290, 1993.

The Cornell University portable radar interferometer (CUPRI) provided
nearly continuous monitoring of the mesosphere above Esrange, Sweden
during the noctilucent cloud rocket and radar campaign of the summer
of 1991 (NLC-91).  CUPRI probed the mesosphere above Esrange from 78
to 91 km altitude with 300-meter resolution and was sensitive to the
enhanced polar mesospheric summer echoes (PMSE) that occur in the same
altitude range as NLC formations.  Out of the total of 264 hours of
CUPRI observation time, PMSE were present for 140 hours.  Rocket Salvo
A was flown on the night of August 9-10 into an NLC event that
occurred simultaneously with a thin and weakening PMSE layer.
High-resolution Doppler spectrograms of this PMSE event revealed
sawtooth-like discontinuities at ~ 83 km altitude, which we interpret
to be a distorted partial reflection layer which was advected across
the radar beam.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Walchli, U., J. Stegman, G. Witt, J. Y. N. Cho, C. A. Miller,
M. C. Kelley, and W. E. Swartz, First height comparison of noctilucent
clouds and simultaneous PMSE, Geophys. Res. Lett., 20, 2845-2848,
1993.

On the night of August 9-10, 1991, three rocket payloads were launched
into simultaneously occurring noctilucent clouds (NLC) and polar
mesospheric summer echoes (PMSE) above Esrange, Sweden as part of the
NLC-91 campaign.  This success should lay to rest any lingering doubts
that the two phenomena are related to each other.  Give this result, a
second aim of this experiment was to compare the vertical structures
and locations of the NLC and PMSE events. To this end, in situ optical
photometers and particle impact sensors were used to measure the
altitude and vertical structure of the NLC layer, while the Cornell
University portable radar interferometer (CUPRI) was used to probe
PMSE.  Although this comparison is complicated by the horizontal
separations between the in situ measurements and the radar volume, and
low electron densities which reduced the overall radar reflectitivity,
we conclude that the PMSE layer in the CUPRI radar volume remained
above the NLC layer detected by the in situ instruments by 300 to 1000
m throughout the experiment.  We interpret this result as supporting
the view that PMSE are more likely to result from the presence of
aerosols smaller than the ones optically detectable as NLCs.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Zadorozhny, A. M., A. A. Tyutin, G. Witt, N. Wilhelm, U. Walchli,
J. Y. N. Cho, and W. E. Swartz, Electric field measurements in the
vicinity of noctilucent clouds and PMSE, Geophys. Res. Lett., 20,
2299-2302, 1993.

We report mesospheric electric field structure in the vicinity of
noctilucent clouds (NLC) and polar mesospheric summer echoes (PMSEs)
measured on the DECIMALS-B rocket payload launched during the
international rocket-radar campaign NLC-91 from Esrange, Sweden on
August 10, 1991.  Unusually large vertical E-fields, Ez, about 100-300
mV/m on ascent and greater than 1 V/m on descent were detected at
82.5-84.5 km.  The region of the large Ez was clearly limited by the
NLC layer on the bottom and by the distinctly separated PMSE layer on
the top.  A narrow negative peak in the Ez height profile observed on
ascent in the lower part of the NLC layer was apparently caused by the
interaction of the field mill with impacting NLC particles possibly
carrying negative charge.  If the impact signature is due to single
particles, their size is estimated to be at least 0.5 um and their
concentration about 10E-4/cc locally.  Based on the light-scattering
properties of NLC such massive particles can only be a minor part of
the NLC population.
